Chief Constable Kate Meyer

Chief Constable Kate Meynell took the reins at Nottinghamshire Police in December 2022. Previously the Deputy Chief Constable at Derbyshire Constabulary, she has returned to the force where she began and spent most of her career.

Kate, who grew up in Nottinghamshire, described her new role as her “dream job”. She said: “Nottinghamshire Police has a positive, strong workforce and I do feel we have the opportunity now to continue the improvements already started. I genuinely care passionately about the force and want to build on the good work that has been done and build relationships with external partners and communities.”

She spent most of her career serving with Nottinghamshire Police, including a two-and-a-half-year spell as Assistant Chief Constable when she led the force’s knife crime strategy and chaired the county strategic response to the Covid pandemic.

She is also the chair of the National Homicide Working Group, which looks into ways to improve the quality of investigations into homicide, including working on a national homicide reduction strategy.

Kate joined Nottinghamshire Police in 1993, when she was posted to Bulwell. For the first few years she worked across Bulwell, Hucknall and Eastwood in uniform roles before joining CID, undertaking investigation roles in Child Abuse Investigation Unit, Divisional CID and Homicide Team.

Progressing through the ranks in both uniformed and detective roles, in 2011 she was part of the East Midlands Special Operations Unit (EMSOU): Major Crime Unit before becoming head of the unit in 2015, overseeing major crime investigations across the East Midlands.

Kate has performed the role of SIO (Senior Investigating Officer) on a number of homicide investigations, including the investigation into a fatal house fire, where the six Philpott children were killed, resulting in the conviction of both their parents and a family friend of their manslaughter.

In 2017, Kate transferred to Northamptonshire Police to the role of Chief Superintendent, Head of Crime. While there she was responsible for CID, Public Protection, Intelligence and Serious and Organised Crime.

In 2018 she returned to Nottinghamshire Police as Assistant Chief Constable, leading the force’s knife crime strategy, before leaving to become Deputy Chief Constable at Derbyshire Constabulary in January 2021.

-----

Deputy Chief Constable Steve Cooper

Steve Cooper started his policing career with the Metropolitan Police Service, where he worked within both uniformed policing and CID. Steve transferred to Nottinghamshire Police in 2001 and was posted to Mansfield. He was promoted to Inspector in 2002, where he worked in a variety of posts including Response, Neighbourhoods and CID.

Steve was promoted to Superintendent in October 2007, and was responsible for leading operations in the City and then appointed as the Deputy Divisional Commander. During his time as a Superintendent, Steve commanded many of the large events that the city hosted, including the Diamond Jubilee visit by Her Majesty the Queen and the Old Market Square events for the Olympic Torch Relay.

In 2013, Steve was promoted to Chief Superintendent and Divisional Commander for the City of Nottingham. He remained there until 2016, when he was seconded to a regional project prior to attending the Strategic Command Course (SCC). Following his attendance at the SCC, in April 2017 Steve was selected to be the Assistant Chief Constable (ACC) responsible for leading the Change Programme and then as ACC for local policing, where he is responsible for Response, Neighbourhoods and CID, as well as the Control Room and custody suites.

In 2022, Steve became the Deputy Chief Constable for Nottinghamshire Police where he is responsible for Corporate Services and the Professional Standards Department.

Operationally, Steve is also a Strategic Commander for Firearms and Public Order.

-----

Assistant Chief Constable Rob Griffin

Rob Griffin has spent his whole policing career with Nottinghamshire Police after joining in 1995.

In the main, Rob has spent his time in investigative roles. Promoted from DC to DS in 2002 he then went on to work in Major Crime.

In 2006 he came back into Force on promotion to Inspector and following a short period as a DMI took up the role of Detective Inspector at City North.

In 2010 Rob was promoted to DCI in the City, and then in 2012, returned to EMSOU Major Crime, where he undertook the role of SIO, attaining his PIP3 and later PIP4 accreditation.

Promoted to Detective Superintendent for the County area in 2015, Rob later took over as the Head of Public Protection.

In 2018 Rob was promoted to Chief Superintendent and took up the role as Head of Local Policing, overseeing the return for the Force back to a Geographic model.

He was appointed as T/ACC in July 2021, with the Specialist Crime and Operations portfolio and attended the Senior Police National Assessment Centre (PNAC) in May 2022.

Rob is married and has a son who is at University in the USA on a football scholarship. He still puts the boots on himself, although fairly infrequently these days. His other hobbies include golf, tennis and running.

-----

Assistant Chief Constable Gary Hooks

Gary joined West Yorkshire Police in 2001, initially posted to Leeds and relatively quickly joined the CID undertaking a variety of roles; both proactive and reactive at local, force and regional level to the rank of DCI.

In 2013 Gary was selected to attend the FBI National Academy, which having successfully completed, he continues as an active member of this prestigious international law enforcement network.

Gary was promoted to Superintendent in Humberside Police in 2016, initially leading the force logistics and planning function before undertaking the role of Detective Superintendent responsible for Crime Investigation; as a PIP3 and accredited K&E SIO.

In 2019, Gary was promoted to Nottinghamshire Police, undertaking the role of Head of Crime and Specialist Operations. He is a Strategic Firearms Commander, PIP4 and a Gold Public Order Commander.

​In July 2022, Gary was temporarily promoted to the rank of Assistant Chief Constable with responsibility for Local Policing.

-----

